Initial documentation on challenges and submissions (#4)
malariagen/ag1000g-bakeoff: challenges/1/README.md

> ## Challenge 1: Variant calling in an Anopheles Gambaie cross

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Challenge 1: SNP and indel variant calling in an _Anopheles gambiae_ cross
```

### Introduction

> This challenge is to create as accurate a call set as possible for an experimental cross of the major malaria vector _Anopheles Gambiae_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This challenge is to create as accurate a call set as possible for an experimental cross of the major malaria vector _Anopheles gambiae_.
```

The father of the cross is from a highly inbred colony from Kisumu, Kenya- first put into colony in the 1970s. 
As a result we expect the father to be highly homozygous.

> The mother is from a much more recently colonised line (Ghana) and therefore expected to have substantially higher levels of variation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The mother is from a much more recently colonised line (Ghana) and therefore expected to have substantially higher levels of heterozygosity. 
```

### Samples

Samples are 22 whole genome sequences from an experimental cross. Included in the set are the 2 parents and 20 progeny.

> `samples.csv` describes the sample ID, the ENA accession IDs, and the role (mother/father/progeny) of each sample.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[samples.csv](samples.csv) describes the sample ID, the ENA accession IDs, and the role (mother/father/progeny) of each sample.
```

Hopefully relative link will work.

Data are provided as `bam` files for convenience, but we anticipate most groups will wish to perform realignment and recalibration.

> Samples were sequenced using an Illumina Hi-seq. All samples have a median coverage of at least 16x.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Samples were sequenced using an Illumina HiSeq. All samples have a median coverage of at least 16x.
```

### Rules

Produce a set of variant calls against the AgamP4 reference genome available from [Vectorbase](https://www.vectorbase.org/downloadinfo/anopheles-gambiae-pestchromosomesagamp4fagz).

> Both SNPs and indels should be called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both SNPs and indels can be called, although submissions with SNPs or indels only are also welcome.
```

Calls against chromosomes 2R and 3R should be submitted for evaluation as detailed below.

> It is permitted to use pedigree information to calibrate models against chromosomes 2L, 3L and X.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is permitted to use pedigree information and data from chromosomes 2L, 3L and X to calibrate models for variant calling and/or filtering.
```

> However the submitted calls should not leverage pedigree information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However the submitted calls in chromosomes 2R and 3R should not leverage pedigree information.
```

### Evaluation

Callsets will be explored to identify consistent causes of error, to assist algorithmic improvement.

> The precise method of evaluation will not be published until entries for this challenge are complete. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The precise method of evaluation has not yet been finalised, and we welcome comments and discussion via [this issue](https://github.com/malariagen/ag1000g-bakeoff/issues/5). 
```

> Although it will be based on mendelian consistency and parsimony of inheritance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Evaluation will be based on Mendelian consistency and parsimony of inheritance.
```

### Submission

Submissions are made by submitting a pull request against the master branch of this repository.

> A new directory should be made in the submissions subdirectory, following the convention {tool}-{institution}: for example unifiedgenotyper-bdioxford.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new directory should be made in the submissions subdirectory, following the convention {tool}-{institution}: for example "unifiedgenotyper-bdioxford".
```

The folder must contain a metadata file called `submission.yml`, containing the following keys.

 - title: Title of the approach, perhaps a tool and version number.
 - institution: Short name of submitting institution

>  - file: Path to a hosted multisample VCF 4.2 file or gVCF file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - file: Path to a hosted multi-sample VCF 4.2 file, containing variant calls for all individuals within the cross.
```

Don't think we can accept gVCF, usually gVCFs are single-sample IIUC.
